---
title: "Thoughts while traveling"
date: 2023-03-08T21:48:55-05:00
draft: true
tag: travel, thoughts
---

I have a recurring thought every time I go to an airport that I never write down but always think "I should write it down this time": I notice some seemingly random parallels between healthcare and commercial air travel. I think surgeons are similar to airline pilots in the sense that I'm sure *some* airline pilots are super passionate about transporting laypeople from point A to point B, but let's be real, ALL of them are in it because flying planes is just cool. In the same way, most surgeons genuinely want to help people, but ALL surgeons love surgery and operating. I've known surgeons where it was almost like helping people happened to be a side effect of operating and not the other way around. (And there's nothing wrong with that—they were some of the best surgeons I've ever operated with.) Also a lot of them are older white men (if someone says "look, a surgeon" or "look, an airline pilot," you'd probably pause and be like "hmm, interesting!!" if that person wasn't an older white man).

Another kind of random parallel is that, on the ground as an airline passenger or a patient, it's nearly impossible to tell that the original purpose of those systems is supposed to be safety and health, respectively. It's hard not to be frustrated with TSA and having to take off your shoes and making sure all your liquids are in their little 3.4 ounce containers (god forbid you bring 3.5 ounces of moisturizer!!!) in the plastic baggie and remove your computers and don't forget the e-reader and empty your pockets and whatnot. I think it's most frustrating for me not because it's an inconvenience but whenever I am waiting in that line, watching the security agents select a frail elderly person for the random full body search, I don't necessarily feel safer, and their whole purpose is supposed to make us safer. Similarly, the healthcare system is supposed to help us be healthy, and I don't remember the last time I interacted with the healthcare system and thought, well, I sure feel a lot healthier now. It's more like, I guess I'm not actively dying! It's not individual TSA agents or healthcare workers at fault, either. My mom made me a roll of [김밥](https://www.koreanbapsang.com/gimbapkimbap-korean-dried-seaweed-rolls/) wrapped in aluminum foil for my flight and TSA flagged it as suspicious, and the agent who pulled me aside to investigate did it in the nicest possible way and just seemed like a good guy trying to do a good job, but he is just a cog in the TSA machine that says that that kimbap might be a weapon so you better take that Korean lady aside and make her open it in front of everyone. I get it though. every day of my life in clinical medicine, I felt like I was disappointing my patients for reasons beyond my control, like if things were running late (which was 100% of the time). The thing that's most frustrating is that TSA doesn't make me feel safer and going to the doctor doesn't make me feel healthier. And in both cases, I feel like my dignity is not preserved. We are grown adult humans taking off our shoes and being groped and then frantically shoving all our things back into our bags so we can fast-walk awkwardly to the gate because we're too cool to run but oh shoot I think the plane is being boarded now. It's even worse for patients, who we force to dress in a thin ugly gown with their butt hanging out and we poke and prod them with very little warning and tell them it's for their own good and that we are trying to help them. It just makes me sad.

